guides/output-files.md, before:

# Output files

Stackmate generates configuration files when running any of its commands. Let's break them down and see what can be committed to source control and what not.

The default location would be right next to your configuration file, but you can specify a different directory when running the commands, for example:

```
npx @stackmate/stackmate -c myconfig.yml -d stackmate/
```

Assuming that you are deploying a simple web application, you can use `.stackmate` as a configuration directory that holds your `config.yml` configuration file and the generated stacks.

```
my-project
│   ...
├── .stackmate
│   └── config.yml
├── ...
└── index.html
```

### What files are generated by stackmate

When running any stackmate command, the following files get generated:

* **Project stacks** - Stackmate generates a set of JSON files, which are then used by Terraform to deploy your stacks. These are generated by CDKTF and further documentation can be found on [CDKTF's documentation](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/cdktf#how-it-works) page.
* **Terraform internal files** - When using stackmate, we run Terraform for you, which creates a set files used internally.

An example structure of the files created, is illustrated below:

```bash
my-project
│   ...
├── .stackmate
│   │   stacks/
│   │   └── production
│   │        ├── .terraform
│   │        │     ├── providers
│   │        │     └── terraform.tfstate
│   │        ├── .terraform.lock.hcl
│   │        ├── main.tf.json
│   │        └── plan # optionally, if you run stackmate preview
│   │         
│   └── config.yml
├── ...
└── index.html
```

### Should I commit the files that are generated by Stackmate?

**You don't have to, but if you do, please have a quick look first**: We designed stackmate in such a way that every auto-generated file does not contain any sensitive information but also, we don't need any local files to be stored in the repository for stackmate to run. To avoid mistakes, please append this section to your `.gitignore`:\


```gitignore
# file: .gitignore
stacks/**/plan
stacks/**/.terraform
terraform.tfstate

# Optionally, you can ignore the dependency lock file, but as per the Terraform
# documentation, you can commit it in version control to lock the provider versions:
# https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/files/dependency-lock
#
# .terraform.lock.hcl
```

### Where does stackmate keep my secrets?

Stackmate doesn't know anything about your secrets. They're generated when you deploy a stage as random values and they're safely stored in your provider's credentials service (for example AWS secrets store)

Commit message:

GITBOOK-67: Revise quick start guide

guides/output-files.md, after:

# Output files

{% hint style="danger" %}
Please make sure you NEVER commit your terraform state file in your version control. Read more about what files you could or couldn't commit [on this section](output-files.md#should-i-commit-the-files-that-are-generated-by-stackmate).
{% endhint %}

Stackmate generates configuration files when running any of its commands. Let's break them down and see what can be committed to source control and what not.

The default location would be right next to your configuration file, but you can specify a different directory when running the commands, for example:

```
npx @stackmate/stackmate -c myconfig.yml -d stackmate/
```

Assuming that you are deploying a simple web application, you can use `.stackmate` as a configuration directory that holds your `config.yml` configuration file and the generated stacks.

```
my-project
│   ...
├── .stackmate
│   └── config.yml
├── ...
└── index.html
```

### What files are generated by stackmate

When running any stackmate command, the following files get generated:

* **Project stacks** - Stackmate generates a set of JSON files, which are then used by Terraform to deploy your stacks. These are generated by CDKTF and further documentation can be found on [CDKTF's documentation](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/cdktf#how-it-works) page.
* **Terraform state files** - Whether we're storing our project's state locally or not, terraform will be creating a state file to use for subsequent deployments.
* **Terraform internal files** - When using stackmate, we run Terraform for you, which creates a set files used internally.

An example structure of the files created, is illustrated below:

```bash
my-project
│   ...
├── .stackmate
│   │   stacks/
│   │   └── production
│   │        ├── .terraform
│   │        │     ├── providers
│   │        │     └── terraform.tfstate
│   │        ├── .terraform.lock.hcl
│   │        ├── main.tf.json
│   │        └── plan # optionally, if you run stackmate preview
│   │         
│   └── config.yml
├── ...
└── index.html
```

### Should I commit the files that are generated by Stackmate?

The one thing to keep in mind is **NEVER, never, never, EVER** commit your state on your source control.

The reason for stressing this so much is that your Terraform state **contains sensitive information** about your infrastructure, which you don't want to fall into the wrong hands. Even if you're working solo, you should still **avoid committing** this file into source control because if for example your GitHub account gets compromised and your private repository is checked out, the attackers would also gain access to your entire infrastructure too.

One file you could consider committing to source control, is the `.terraform.lock.hcl` file, which is the dependency lock file for Terraform. This file is used by Terraform to download providers locally while running operations (for example the AWS provider) and it's practically forcing Terraform to use a specific provider version. Otherwise, Terraform uses the most recent provider version. You can learn more on this Terraform [documentation](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/files/dependency-lock) page.

The rest of the files are up to you too but you could **have a look** on the file's contents first. For convenience, we have a list of files you could append to `.gitignore` :

```gitignore
# file: .gitignore
stacks/
*.tfstate
.terraform.lock.hcl
```

### Where does stackmate keep my secrets?

Stackmate doesn't know anything about your secrets. They're generated when you deploy a stage as random values and they're safely stored in your provider's credentials service (for example AWS secrets store)
